---
title: Accidentally Removed vNIC from VirtualCenter Virtual Appliance
author: Joe Chan
layout: post
permalink: /2012/04/accidentally-removed-vnic-from-virtualcenter-virtual-appliance/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 1450436439
categories:
  - VMware
tags:
  - linux
  - networking
  - suse
  - vcva
---
I recently had a customer who had accidentally removed the vNIC from his VCVA.

Upon boot up, the VCVA had issues connecting to the network.

Normally, I would suggest just re-deploying the VCVA, but the customer did not want to rebuild his VCVA.

We ran ifconfig, and we saw this:

	  
	localhost:~ # ifconfig  
	lo Link encap:Local Loopback  
	inet addr:127.0.0.1 Mask:255.0.0.0  
	inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host  
	UP LOOPBACK RUNNING MTU:16436 Metric:1  
	RX packets:180 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0  
	TX packets:180 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0  
	collisions:0 txqueuelen:0  
	RX bytes:66116 (64.5 Kb) TX bytes:66116 (64.5 Kb)  
	

Where was eth0?

	  
	localhost:~ # ls /etc/sysconfig/network |grep eth  
	ifcfg-eth0  
	

The interface&#8217;s script appeared to be there.

I looked at /var/log/messages on the VM during boot and it looked like the current adapter was being identified as eth1, and it was failing to come up.

We then looked at /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules:

	  
	\# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write\_net\_rules  
	\# program run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.  
	#  
	\# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single line.  
	\# PCI device 0x15ad:0x07b0 (vmxnet3)  
	SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?\*", ATTR{address}=="xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth\*", NAME="eth0"  
	SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?\*", ATTR{address}=="yy:yy:yy:yy:yy:yy", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth\*", NAME="eth1"  
	

where xx:xx:xx:xx:xx:xx was the MAC address of the vNIC he had removed and yy:yy:yy:yy:yy:yy is the MAC of his current existing vNIC.

We replaced his old 70-persistent-net.rules with:

	  
	\# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write\_net\_rules  
	\# program run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.  
	#  
	\# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single line.  
	\# PCI device 0x15ad:0x07b0 (vmxnet3)  
	SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?\*", ATTR{address}=="yy:yy:yy:yy:yy:yy", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth\*", NAME="eth0"  
	

We then rebooted the VCVA, and it came online with no problems.

<p class="wp-flattr-button">
  <a class="FlattrButton" style="display:none;" href="http://virtuallyhyper.com/2012/04/accidentally-removed-vnic-from-virtualcenter-virtual-appliance/" title=" Accidentally Removed vNIC from VirtualCenter Virtual Appliance" rev="flattr;uid:virtuallyhyper;language:en_GB;category:text;tags:linux,networking,suse,vcva,blog;button:compact;">I recently had a customer who had accidentally removed the vNIC from his VCVA. Upon boot up, the VCVA had issues connecting to the network. Normally, I would suggest just...</a>
</p>